===============================================================================
2.         Introduction
===============================================================================

Alright, so I scrapped the original intro. Now that the American version is out, 
the fact that I can't read Japanese doesn't mean squat.

This guide was written with the intent of being a full walkthru, one that would 
help you COMPLETE, not just beat the game. If you're looking for the quickest 
way through, this is not the guide for you. If you want to enjoy your Zelda 
experience fully, then read on.

At the time of this writing, there are four FAQs on gamefaqs.com, and there are 
at least three strategy guides available on the market. I believe this guide is 
better than all of them because it integrates all the parts of the game 
together, and in a cohesive manner. You don't have to look at the end of the 
guide for the side-quests that give you hearts, treasure charts, etc.. I 
personally always hated having to flip back and forth. For quick reference, 
though, or for people who only want to know where to find treasure chart #41, 
there are also lists at the end.

This guide is organized in the way I find it easiest to do things. Zelda games 
in general are fairly loose. That is, you have a general order in which you 
should do things, but you can wander around too. Because that is the case, some 
people may prefer to get things in a different order. That is their choice, and 
hey, good for them. This is the way I like to do things, and I hope you find it 
easiest this way too. I generally try to minimize running around and do things 
in one fell swoop.

Lastly, I try to call things by their correct names, but sometimes I don't. 
Zunari is Iceman to me, because he looks like the enemy from Megaman. Miniblins 
are imps because I find the name "miniblin" stupid. You may find other instances 
where I've taken similar liberties. It shouldn't be too confusing, I hope.
