
===============================================================================
4.      General tips/tricks
===============================================================================

Here are some general strategies you should think of while you play the game. 
With only one exception (boomerang fighting), I don't really go into detail on 
any of these in the walkthru. None of these strategies are necessary to beat the 
game, but they will make your quest a lot easier.

GRAPPLING FOR FUN AND PROFIT: As you may have noticed, some enemies drop various 
spoils, things that don't really help you directly in any way, but can prove 
useful nonetheless (red drops from red chuchus or joy pendants from bokoblins, 
for example). It is in your best interest to collect as many of these as you 
can, because certain characters will barter for them (joy pendants especially, 
as you need 20 of them to beat the game). Once you get the grappling hook, 
however (which is rather early in the game, luckily), it becomes much easier. 
When used on any enemy that drops a spoil, it steals that item 100% of the time 
(the first time you use it, that is; you can't get an infinite amount from just 
one enemy). I wouldn't suggest doing this in a huge melee, but if there are only 
one or two enemies, go for it.

BOOMERANG FIGHTING: After you get the boomerang, it should be equipped 100% of 
the time. It is your best friend in this game. As any Zelda veteran knows, it is 
one of the most useful items anyway, but here it really shines. Whenever you 
encounter any enemy, with very few exceptions, your tactic should be: stun with 
the boomerang, attack with the sword. Darknuts, for example, need to be made 
vulnerable first (by cutting off the helmet), but they too will fall to the 
mighty boomerang. Some enemies, like stalfos knights, require a different 
strategy, but this is a very good general tactic.

COUNTER-STRIKE: In the heat of battle, sometimes you will hear a noise and your 
sword will glow green for a second. This is your chance to perform the parry 
attack. Basically, you hit A and Link does a counterattack. It is generally a 
wise move to do this, especially when fighting darknuts, but not always. If the 
boomerang attack I described above works on what you are fighting, it is usually 
a better attack. Also, there are other times it might not be prudent. Fighting 
magtails comes to mind. If you just want to kill the bugs, go for it, but often 
you need them to place on a switch. In these cases, the parry attack is too 
powerful and the magtail will die instead of roll into a ball.

CANNONBALL RUN: As you travel the high seas, you will encounter all kinds of 
enemies. You can technically go through the game without fighting most of them 
(though it's easier to fight than dodge), but you HAVE to fight warships at 
least once. If you don't have bombs, you have no chance, so run away. If you do 
have bombs (you need 3 per ship at the very least), these can be really easy 
fights. The AI that controls the ships is very poor at close range, so I like to 
sail right up to them and attack point-blank. Also, if you are very close, the 
water rolling (you know, going up and down) doesn't have as great an impact as 
it does from far away. If you get a hit, fire two shots more as fast as you can 
to put the boat away. Also of note, if you hold R, you can actually move King 
with the cannon still drawn. You move too slowly to be effective at dodging, or 
even pursuit, but it is still useful at times. 

GONE FISHING: Besides the warships and turrets you may encounter on the high 
seas, there are several other enemies you will face. While the cannon works, it 
is too slow to serve as a useful weapon. Arrows are effective too, but my weapon 
of choice is the boomerang. It's fast and doesn't have a limited number of 
shots. If you encounter something, lower your sail (hit A) and lock onto the 
enemy ASAP. Gyorgs (sharks) and kargarocs (birds) are simple, they take two hits 
each. The things that really annoy me at the seahats (huge turnip-looking 
things). You need quick reflexes to lock on and hit them before they can get to 
you. Sadly, there is no other tactic I can really give. Just be quick, get back 
on King if you are knocked off, and avoid them altogether if possible.
