

---------------------------------------------------------------
E) DUNGEON #1: DRAGON ROOST CAVERN (FIRE)
---------------------------------------------------------------

Easy enough puzzle. Pull the left statue towards you, then the center one left. 
Go through the newly exposed door into the first proper room. Kill two 
bokoblins, pick up a dropped staff, hopefully still on fire. If not, walk near a 
torch, stand so the end of the staff is in the fire and it will ignite. Use that 
to light the other torches and make a chest containing a key appear. Use that to 
open the door and go into the next room.

Cut through the crappy wood bars with your sword and go left. Skip the first 
door you see (it's locked and continue along the wood path. Jump across the 
first gap, and at the second, drop a level and pull a box out of the wall. Climb 
on that to jump to the other side and keep going. Wait for the flames to die 
down and jump across to the next platform. Fight some keese (the bats), but 
don't cut the strands on the rope bridge. That would be bad. Run across said 
rope bridge and blow up the boulder you see. Next room.

The jugs on this table are special. If you throw these pots into the lava, the 
water inside solidifies it and gives you a platform to stand on. Use that to 
your advantage and try to place one that allows you to jump onto it and then 
over to the left. Don't take your sweet time, though, they don't last forever. 
Grab the chest here (the map) and head back to the table. Make another platform 
and use it to get to the other side. That whole trip can be easily made with one 
platform, but if you don't think you could make it, there you go. Go up the 
ladder and fight your very first red chuchu. They come in several colors, but 
this one is red. Hit him once or twice, he will die. Next room.

Walk towards the wooden bars in front of you and a bokoblin will break loose. 
Kill him and pick up his sword. Smash the other set of bars with it. Go through 
and hop up on the ledge to fight 2 red chuchus, then use the bokoblin sword to 
break these bars. Get a key. Head down and continue the way you were going to 
another door (guarded by two more red chuchus, they come in packs). Kill and go 
through.

You're back in the second room (with the keese and rope bridge). To your left is 
a boulder and some bomb flowers growing in a wall. Throw a stone or something 
and hit the flowers to make them explode. Go across and take the second door, 
the one we skipped back at the beginning because it was locked.

Skip the stuff on your right and fight some more red chuchus. If they weren't 
easy, they'd get old REAL fast. Smash the left bars, kill the bokoblin, and take 
his staff. Light it with the torch, and set the right bars on fire. Then run 
back to the turn near the door I told you to skip, still with the burning staff. 
Get as close to the edge as you can, aim towards the bars, and throw the staff 
with A. They'll light too. Head back to the first set of bars you burnt, step on 
the switch, and go through the door.

We're outside. Pick up the pot to the right of you and carry it. Go across the 
rope bridge, hitting the bokoblin in the head once you get in range. You don't 
want to mess around with the rope bridges. That should get him clear enough to 
wail on him. Do so. Climb the ladder paying attention to the flame spurt. Once 
up there, kill the bird, and go across the ledge, again being careful of the 
flame spurt. Go around the boulder and find a ledge just above your head. Hang 
from it and shimmy to the other side of the chasm, pulling yourself up once the 
room is adequate. Hope onto the stone, then up, grab the bomb, blow up the 
boulder. Go into that new door.

Here you see a stack of blocks. Pull the middle one out completely. Then stand 
on it and pull the block in front of you out one notch. That's enough to climb 
on it, then the third one and go in that entryway. Kill the rats, or ignore 
them, they're just a nuisance, and pull the block out of the wall. Climb up and 
open the chest near the torch. Compass. Yay. Smash the jar and light and throw a 
staff to burn the boards opposite you. Get that chest for a key. Through the 
locked door.

Back outside. Run up the stairs and kill the kargaroc. Then steal its baby, a 
silver key. They're so cute when they're young. Open the door and go in.

Ooh. Dark. I'm scared. Smash a jar, grab a staff, light it. Run through, 
lighting a torch and some boards. Drop the staff and kill the keese. On the 
ledge here, there's a chest with a joy pendant. Pick the staff back up, relight 
it from this new torch, and continue through the smoldering boards. Light two 
more torches and go through the door.

Grab the bomb flower and blow the boulder off the top of the jar. That's a warp 
jar. Useful sometimes. Best to open them up in case you die or something. You 
never know. Across the rope bridge and into the door.

Kill the bokoblin and start smashing every pot you see. There are two more 
bokoblins hiding in them. Climb on things to make sure you get them all. The jar 
bokoblins will each drop a staff, use one to light the unlit torch and make a 
chest appear. Your first treasure map (which is actually #39). We'll worry about 
it later, but each one of these is worth at least 200 rupees. So they're good 
stuff. Go out the door up top.

Try and kill the magtail over on the platform, or at least get him to move. I 
find it easiest to kill him with the parry attack, but if you have trouble, 
throw a water jug at him. Head back, grab a water jug, and hop back to the 
platform. Wait until the flames die down, throw the jug to where they were, and 
hop on. Instant elevator. Jump over to the wood and through the door.

Blow up both boulders here using the bomb flower near the door. One is another 
warp jar, the other is a door. Go through it.

Outside one more time. Run up the stairs. They fall, so keep moving. Medli's 
been captured! Let's see if you can mount this rescue without being tossed into 
the ocean by a giant bird. Kill these two bokoblins, then the big ugly moblin. 
The big one turns into a weird glowing sphere. Hit it with your sword and 
various things will come out, rupees, hearts, etc. It's like a jackpot. Talk to 
Medli and get a grappling hook. Go up the stairs you see, and use it. You'll get 
a little targeting thing, aim it at the bar Medli is standing on, the brownish 
part. When you can fire, it changes to a yellow starburst kind of mark. Then 
it's just like swinging on those lanterns. Swing over the next one, then cut 
through the boards and drop a level. This is the door you just came in. Use it. 
Run to the warp jar and hop in. You're back at the beginning. Kill these two 
bokoblins (again) and go through the door. Go into the first door on the left, 
then turn right. Remember here? Swing across and get another treasure map (#11). 
Swing back, go back out the door, into the first room, and back into the warp 
jar. This takes you to the second warp jar, but we don't want to be here, so hop 
back in again. Go through the door that led to the grappling hook and turn left. 
More grapple poles. Swing like Tarzan down to the door and go in. Also, if you 
get stuck at an awkward angle while swinging, hold R. That'll stop you. Turn a 
bit, then let go of R and start swinging again. You can also climb up and down 
while holding R.

Go across the rope bridge, killing the obvious bokoblin and then the one that 
pops out of a jar. Remember what I said about respecting the bridge? Forget it. 
Cut all the vertical strands, or, what I find more fun, grab a bokoblin staff, 
light it, and then burn them. You'll fall to a lower level. Grab the chest (joy 
pendant) and go out the door.

Okay, hop into this birdcage thing on your left. You want to stand in the center 
and cut all three ropes and once. The easiest way is the charged B spin attack. 
Done right, the bottom will fall and land on another flame geyser, so you have 
an elevator. Once you are down bottom, jump into the little archway and 
continue. Jump across wood platforms then go up a ladder to a big mouth with a 
door in it. Turn around and look up at the ceiling to find a grapple dealie. 
Swing on it, and it will pull down, because this is actually a switch as well. 
Hold in R, stop, turn around, swing back, and go into the door.

**GBA note** If you have the GBA, use the Tingle Tuner and bomb the little 
alcove right across from you (there will be a question mark where you should 
bomb). A chest will appear with a golden Tingle statue inside. There are 5 
total, one in each dungeon. You CAN'T get it without the Tingle Tuner (even if 
you come back later with bombs). **end GBA note**

Grapple, stop, turn right (or left if you got the Tingle statue), and swing over 
that way. Jump across platforms and grapple to the door.

Okay, here you want to take one of the magtails and hit it, but not kill it. If 
you hit it twice with a normal attack, it will roll into a ball. Pick it up and 
drop it on the switch so you can get at the chest with the boss key. Now, if 
you're lazy, you can save, quit, and then you'll be back at the beginning of the 
dungeon where you can use the warp urn twice to get to where we're going. Or you 
can backtrack the long way. Your choice. Me, I'll backtrack. Get a few more 
rupees, and it's not like it's hard. Besides, it's what you "should" do. 

Leave through the door you came in. Grapple across, hop to the next grapple 
pole, then grapple, turn left, climb up a little so you are level with the 
ledge, and swing to that door. Exit. This is tricky, but can be done. Grapple 
onto the switch we pulled down before. Hold R, turn so you're facing the exact 
center of the bridge, and climb down a little. We need as wide a swinging arc as 
possible while still being able to reach the bridge. When you have it, swing and 
let go, and if done right, you will catch onto the bridge. If you have too much 
trouble, just do what I described before about saving, quitting, and using the 
urn twice. Assuming you made it, turn right on the bridge. Jump across the gap, 
follow the path, jumping where need be. Take the second right turn and voila, 
you're back at the warp urn room. Kill the bokoblins, use it, then use it again.

Finally. Near the lava is a grapple pole that you can use to swing across. Kill 
the magtail if you wish, and run up the stairs to the door, grabbing the chests 
on the way. Each of the top jars has a fairy, which you should catch in your 
bottle (use it near the fairy). Unlock this mean looking door and enter... if 
you dare.
 
                                BOSS: Gohma

I remember back when this guy used to be just a stupid crab. Make sure you have 
your grappling hook equipped and walk towards the lava to make the boss appear. 
His name is Gohma. Say hello to him. Shake his hand... err, claw if you wish. 
Then kill him. How do I do that? Directly above his head is a tail (belonging to 
the dragon who resides on top of this volcano). You can grapple onto it. Do so 
and swing across to the other side. This will bring the ceiling down, cracking 
Gohma in the head. Gohma will fling the ceiling back up where it belongs, at 
which point you can repeat the process. After hitting him three times, his 
carapace is shattered, allowing you to hurt him. Lock onto his head and use the 
grappling hook on it. This will pull it close enough for you to poke him in the 
eye a couple times. Do that until he is dead. If you're good, it'll only take 
two head grapples. Get your heart container and enter the glowing spot in the 
middle of the room.

You're teleported outside. Medli and Komali come over to talk to you. The prince 
gives you Din's Pearl. Yay.

Remember the traveling salesman? Get into his boat now. If you don't see it, 
wait, he'll be around (he circles the island). Time for some shopping. What we 
want to buy is something that looks like a pig's head. This is the bait bag. It 
costs 20 rupees. He also has things that look like pears and little specks of 
something. Buy 3 pears (hyoi pears) and 5 sets of the specks (all-purpose bait) 
if you can afford them, but pears are the priority. Get at least one of those 
(if you somehow don't have 30 rupees for the bag and a pear, I pity you). 

A note on Beedle from Jarel Jones:

"Beedle (the guy that runs those floating shops around certain islands) has a 
membership program where you can buy 30 items to get a Silver Membership and 60 
to get a Gold.  Getting a Silver nets you a Complimentary ID through the mail.  
If you show him the Complimentary ID, he... wait for it.. compliments you.  How 
lame.  The Gold nets you a Fill-Up Coupon, which will fill most of your items to 
their max values when you show it to Beedle.  You can only use it once though."

I haven't gotten 60 yet, but I did get the Complimentary ID. It's HILARIOUS. 
This is, hands down, the funniest Zelda installment yet.

Leave and go back to King.

Equip the Wind Waker and the sail. Talk to King, then go back to shore and use 
the Wind Waker and play the Wind's Requiem. A little compass will pop up. Push 
the D-stick in the direction you want the wind to blow, south in this case, and 
hit A. Get into King, raise your sail, and go south (the direction of the arrow 
behind you, remember).

Hit up on the D-PAD (not the stick). This brings up the world map, and one 
square will have a glowing mark on it. That's our destination. From now on, I 
will use (X,Y) coordinates in reference to the map (that is horizontal then 
vertical, for the math impaired). Likewise, I will treat the map as a graph. It 
looks so much like one anyway. (1,1) is the furthest west and furthest south 
square. Windfall Island is located at (4,6), the island we just left is (6,6), 
and the island we are headed to is (6,2). It's not so important now, but later 
on I will be heavily dependent on that notation to tell you where to go. Try to 
get used to it.

Speaking of the map, before you get too far, a little fish will pop up. He is a 
master cartographer, apparently. He fills in your map at this square, then takes 
off. He appears in every square on the world map, near whatever the main island 
of the square is. You call him with food (that we haven't gotten yet), and he 
will fill in that respective square. By game's end, you will have filled them 
all in, simply because we will visit each square at least once. We will not 
worry about it right now, however, because we have more pressing matters to 
attend to.

You still aren't equipped to fight and enemies probably won't bother you (key 
word: probably). If you see anything, avoid it. You may get smacked in the head 
by some cannonballs, most likely after passing a watchtower. It shouldn't 
happen, but you might get unlucky. If so, hop back on King and keep going. 
Again, you are not equipped to fight anything at sea, not yet. After quite a 
while, you will end up at the next island. It is made up of several very large 
formations, so when you see it on the horizon, aim for it. Like the last, King 
will automatically land.
