---------------------------------------------------------------
Y) THE ULTIMATE SHOWDOWN
---------------------------------------------------------------

Ganondorf is standing over Zelda's lifeless body. There is some dialogue between 
you and him and he charges... and completely pummels you. He holds you up and 
activates all three Triforces. They combine to form THE Triforce, the one that 
grants wishes to its holder. Ganondorf throws you down and goes to claim his 
prize, only to be stopped by the King of Hyrule. See, the King touches the 
Triforce first and wishes that you have hope, and that Hyrule be sealed away 
forever. That serves as enough of a distraction for you and Zelda to wake up. 
Time to end this. Zelda hands Link the Master Sword and the final battle begins.

You and Zelda are double-teaming Ganondorf, so the trick is to get her to hit 
him with the light arrows she's firing. The easiest way to do that is line it up 
so he is between the two of you. Just keep backing (or backflipping) away from 
him until he gets hit (he HURTS, so don't get hit). He'll be stunned, which is 
your chance to wail on him. After a while, he gets mad and slaps Zelda. You're 
on your own now.

He comes at you with a slash, spin slash, then a jumping attack. As he jumps, 
you'll be able to do the parry attack. If it hits, he'll be stunned and you can 
get a couple hits in on his back. Repeat until Zelda wakes back up.

She'll fire light arrows at him, but he'll dodge. All you can do now is try and 
keep from getting hit. Eventually, Zelda wises up. She comes up with a new 
tactic. She'll shoot an arrow at you, and you bounce it back at Ganondorf with 
your mirror shield. He'll be stunned, but only for a second. Quickly lock onto 
him, draw your sword, and run up to him. DON'T ATTACK! Instead, he will attack 
you, and you can use the parry attack to deal the final blow. Huzzah!
